# [Figma Tutorial Week 2]({% post_url 2019-01-18-mypost %})
This is Ravinder Kumar and This is my second blog post.

## Topic: Degin of Medical Scheduling Website.

In the begining of my tutorial week i was bit confused about the instructions of the project and about my project. In the previous week i did detailed research about figma and i found that it is very usefull for all the users who are willing to do wireframes/designs, prototypes and share our project with team members and do with in the same at on one project.I choose figma over sketch because its not restricted to only plateform and the thing i really like about figma that we dont need to intall figma on our device, just a simple sign in process on web browser and we are ready to go.In terms of design tools, Figma also offers a couple of features that could be considered superior to their Sketch counterparts. Grids and constraints allow for total flexibility when it comes to creating resizable, responsive layouts.

With the help Figma i am going to create a medical scheduling website.I decied to keep the website of the website as simple as possible with creative designs. The design of the website is going to be a mixture of a mobile application and a website. I decided to do so because i really dont like the websites with great mess of text.

### Features
* Crop, Fit, and Fill Modes
* Non-destructive Boolean Operations
* Optimized Performance
* Comprehensive Export
* Sketch Import
* Pixel Preview
* Smart Guides
* Vector Networks
* Constraints
* Components
* Layout Grids
* Live Device Preview
* Masks
* Advanced Text Options

### Progress:
I've completed the tutorials from Lynda.com about figma. It gives me the deep knowledge about figma's features, like how i can get benefit from different tools and shortcuts.I have started working on my project, i have crated the template for my Medican scheduling website in which i have used an image as background and set opacity. i have created the welcome page, sign up and sign page.
