# [Adobe XD (Presentation) Week 5]({% post_url 2019-03-15-mypost %})
Hello This is Ravinder Kumar and This is my blog post.

## What i have learned:
When i started working with Adobe XD, it looks simpler than any other designing software (like illustrator or Photoshop).It has three main modes Design, Prototype and Share. The design Mode is where you can design your stuff, you have various UI kits to select from( mobile to desktop by adobe and thirde party designers). It gives options for various artboards from mobile to desktop. The advanced variety of tools like square, circle, pen tool etc. gives more freedom to create new designs. In the asset panel you can control each and every design part for example you want to change the color of header and footer for your design, you just need to go to asset panel select colors and change the color you choose for the same and its Done. Everything is arranged under the asset panel for typography to symbols. I really like the grid repeat fuction which saves alot of time by making replicas of selected part of your work.

The prototype mode is very simple one, in order to make a prototype you just need to click on prototype and select the locations and destinations for the loactions.It also provides some intersting features like transitions, voice command, delays etc.

Share mode is to share your work with teams to review your work. They can give comments. Share mode has five feature that works as they named Share Document to share, Share for review for views, Share for Development for devlopers so they can track each and every asset their dimentions, color pallets etc. Manage links to mange your links which you have sent to others where you can update it.Lastly Record video to make vdeo of your design or prototype.



Here is the live link to my presentation:

https://xd.adobe.com/view/a9f19797-2944-4109-48cc-5b86d9caa853-dfc0/


-Thanks
