# [Figma Tutorial Week 2]({% post_url 2019-01-18-mypost %})
This is Ravinder Kumar and This is my second blog post.

## Topic:Stepwise Tutorial For Designing Medical Scheduling Website
### 1.What you will learn?
In this tutorial, you will learn how to use Figma for designing and prototyping a website.
You will especially learn about:
*	Crop, Fit, and Fill Modes.
*	Non-destructive Boolean Operations
*	Optimized Performance
*	Comprehensive Export
*	Smart Guides
*	Masks
*	Advanced Text Options
*	Layout Grids
### 2.Setting up Figma:
* a. Go to www.figma.com and create an account or sign in if already have one.
* b. After signing in click on create team in order to start a new project. A pop up window will appear and ask for team name. Give a random name to your team and press click on Create team button. When you successfully created a team you will find and option called + New Project Click on that and Name your project as Medical Scheduling Website.
* Now you have successfully set up Figma.
### 3. Creating Welcome :
* A. You will find a frames option from the top menu bar under the grid (3rd one from left) button. You will see a bunch of options on like mobile, desktop etc. Select the Desktop one and you will see a desktop artboard in the work area.
* B. Now you are ready to play and experiment figma tools. If you see on the top menu bar you can see a square icon(fourth from the left). When you click on it you will some options to will drop down like Rectangle, line, arrow etc. choose rectangle from there and draw a rectangle on the desktop artboard with the width of 1440 px and height 400px. 
* C. Now double click on the rectangle and you will see the options in the top menu bar has been changed. Select the bend tool from there which is fourth one from left-side and is of curve icon. When you hover over the bottom line of the rectangle, you’ll see a bend line then click on drag down about 2 centimetres. Now select the fill option from design  bar from left and write the color code #45026 and move the rectangle to the top of the desktop and adjust according to the artboard size. Header part is ready now.
* D. For the footer part hover over the header and press and hold alt key you will see double anchors now click and drag. You have just made a copy of the header part. If you hover over the corner of the rectangle you will see curved arrow, click and hold there and then rotate the rectangle upside down. Move it to the bottom of the artboard and adjust it according to the artboard size just like header one. Footer part is ready now.
* E. We need something for the background so, lets download an image from pexels.com and import it to the artboard. To do so, go to the main menu from top hover over the Files option and then click on the place image option or press ctrl+shift+k. Select the image and click on the artboard (not on the rectangle). The image will auto adjust according to the artboard’s size. Right click on the image and select send to back option you will see header and footer are displaying on the image.
* F. In order to add some opacity lets make a rectangle to size of the artboard Choose the fill option from the design and write the color code #161515 and in the layers section select the opacity option(with eye symbol) and set it to the 60%. 
* G. As now our template is completed,we need to make a new file for the ‘Welcome’ page. Copy the template in the new page(Same as we created as template artboard).
H. Click on ‘T’ symbol on the top-left menu bar (5th icon) which will help us to write the text. Click on the artboard and write the necessary headings (Welcome to the Medical Scheduling Website)  with font size 64 px and set the color to white, enter it. Also you can write ‘get started’ with font size 48 px with text color set to white.

I: Now we need to make the buttons underneath. For this, We take rectangle tool to make a rectangle with width 233 px and height 67px. Zoom on to the button and select it,you will see a small 4 dots inside the corner of the rectangle. Click on the dots to make the curve. This will help us to create the button more clickable.Add text to the button with T tool again. Our button is ready ! We need to make another button with same features. Don’t worry we can just copy the button with the help of Alt key and the use of hover in our keypad/mouse. Place the button on the right side of the original button and click on the new button and you can change the text. For the first button, you should right Sign-up and for the next button you need to write Sign-in. Both of our buttons are now ready to be displayed. 

J: Arrange the buttons according to the design of the webpage. Now use the feature called ‘Align Horizontal Centres’ which is available on the top-right side of the Settings under design section (2nd option). Select both buttons by pressing shift key and selecting outer rectangle(The one we  used for opacity) with ‘Align Horizontal Centre’ feature and you will see they align together. Now place it under ‘get-started’ your buttons are ready to display. 
### 4. Creating Sign-in and Sign-up Page
A. Now we are ready to make the sign-in and Sign-up page. Create a new artboard. Copy the template part and paste to the new artboard. 
B. For the Sign-in page, now we are creating a textbox to enter details from the user. Create one rectangle by the rectangle tool available and also smooth the corners by the dots (Like we did for the buttons). Set the background-color to light grey which is an option at the right side under the pixel-review and add text with the help of ‘T’. You can write ‘Enter username and Email’.  
C. Copy this text-box and Enter ‘Password’ in place of previous text. Text-boxes are ready. You can align these buttons by using the ‘Align Horizontal Centre’ function we used in previous page.
D. Make the button by using the same settings as above. (Sign-up button) and write the text ‘Sign-in’. 
E. For the Sign-up page, make the textbox for entering data same as the previous page. You can write,’Enter Firstname’,’Enter Lastname’,’Enter Email’,’Password’,’Re-type Password’. These textboxes are same as the textboxs in the previous page. Align them with the tool called ‘Align Horizontal Centre’ and align vertically to the textboxes. Now our Sign-in and Sign-up pages are ready. 

### 5. Home Page
A. Now we are ready to make the Home page. Create a new artboard. Copy the template part and paste to the new artboard.
B. For the user’s profile picture, you need to go to font-awesome icons and search for user icons, download any icon you think suits and download it. Uploading in this template is very easy! You just need to drag the icon and drop to the template and its ready to use. To change the size, click on the icon and press shift and with the help of the mouse or keypad you can change the size to 97 px width and 97 px height. (Make sure to resize all the icons which will be used have same width and height). Now place the icon in header. 
C. For the user name we need to put the text from T. You can choose the Text-Size to 48 and set the color to white. You can place the text to the right of icon. Select the icon and text and place it in the centre of the header. 
D. For the different user- options, we will start with a rectangle (Width:395 px and Height:164 px). Smooth the corners with the dots inside the rectangle making them curved from the corners. Copy this rectangle and paste it making 3 rows and 3 columns making it a grid! 
We can change the background color to different random colors making it more attractive. Also, now you can add multiple icons for these options. For example, Settings icon, Info icon, Edit/Delete Icon and Add icon from font-awesome. Remember how we placed the user profile icon? Yes you got it right! Place the icons same as that by just dragging and dropping. Links for icons are given below which we are using in the exercise. 
Links and References :
The icon are downloaded from Fontawsome.com 
User-Profile
https://fontawesome.com/icons/user-tie?style=solid 
Booking
https://fontawesome.com/icons/bookmark?style=solid 
Edit
https://fontawesome.com/icons/edit?style=solid 
Emergency
https://fontawesome.com/icons/hospital-alt?style=solid 
History
https://fontawesome.com/icons/history?style=solid 
Invoice
https://fontawesome.com/icons/file-invoice-dollar?style=solid 
Settings
https://fontawesome.com/icons/cogs?style=solid 
Cancel
https://fontawesome.com/icons/ban?style=solid 
E. As the options are done. We can place one more icon for the side-menu bar. Download the icon and place on top right by the same method above. Wow this looks awesome!
### 5. Creating Add a new booking page:
A. Now we are ready to make the Add a new booking page. Create a new artboard. Copy the template part and paste to the new artboard. 
B. Create a rectangle with the width of 1331px and height of 562px and place it right in the center of the template. Create another rectangle with the width of 564 px and height of 429 px and place it in the rectangle we created before on the right side. I took the image from my own system, but you can also take any picture of calendar or take a screenshot of your own system. Go to ‘Menu; and select ‘Files’ now you will see and option of ‘Place as image’. Select this option and you will see how the image will autofits itself according to the rectangle. This is the beauty of Figma, I love this feature! Select ‘T’ to put on some text, Write ‘Calendar’ and place it on top the calendar in picture. Make sure the text color is black and the font size is 48px. 
C.  Let’s make the textboxes, its very simple. Make a rectangle with Rectangle tool and make the background color to light grey. Width and Height should be 422 px and 58 px respectively. Copy this rectangle and place it 3 times below it. Now we have total 4 rectangles which serve as textboxes. How do they look?
D. Its time to place some text in front of the textboxes. Choose the ‘T’ tool to make text and place it to the left of the text-box we just made. Write ‘Find a clinic’ and set the font-size to 36 px and color to black(Which is default!). Like this technique, place 3 more texts in front of all the textboxes so the user know what to enter and information about the text box.
E. Use a symbol of Triangle for the first text-box, we need to go to shape tool which is in the main menu on the top left, select polygon and triangle is selected as default. You can also change the setting if you want any other polygon with different dimensions. Now press shift and reduce the size of 38 px Width and 28 px Height with an angle of 180 degrees. Place it at the corner right side of the textbox.
F. Same as the sign-up button in Sign-in/Sign-up page. Follow the same steps to make a button with the text ‘Submit’.
G. This page is ready. Make sure the alignment is matched with the screenshots provided. Your page looks Fabulous! 
### 6. Creating No booking page:
A. Now we are ready to make the no bookings yet page. Create a new artboard. Copy the template part and paste to the new artboard. 
B. Create a rectangle with the width of 1321px and height of 582px and place it right in the center of the template.
C. Now we will learn how to use the pen tool in figma. Select the Drawing tool from the top menu bar (5th one from the left). Lets click somewhere in the rectangle we created and start making a uncomplete rectangle as shown in the screenshot. And create 3 small squares according to the size of rectangle. As you can see, the rectangle  we made from pen-tool is incomplete. Place the 3 small rectangles in between the space making it look like as the screenshot. 
D. Now for the cross sign, use two rectangles with color red and place inside each other making them cross and looking at the screenshot, you will see this cross is cutting the rectangle from some portion. This design is classy! 
E. Use the drawing tool (pentool) as above and make a sign with arrow and place text from ‘T’ tool and write ‘Go Back’ and place it to the right of the arrow! 
 ### 7. Side-Bar Menu
A. We are ready to make the Side-Bar Menu page. Create a new artboard. Copy the Homepage and paste to the new artboard. Click on the artboard and make the opacity to 60% by the option of Opacity in the right-side under design layout. This will darken the background. 
B. Create a rectangle with dimensions 478 px width and 1023 px height. Give it a background color. I have given #C4C4C4. Place it at the corner right as the screenshot provided. Make a circle and make sure the color is white. Now copy the user’s icon and paste it above the circle. Click on the icon and change the color to green. I have used #45D26D. The option is available in ‘Fill’ under the design layout. 

C. Place some text using ‘T’ and write the user’s name. I have written Ravv, you can choose your own name. Place it at right side of the icon. Make sure you increase the size of icon!
D. Place some Text and choose the color white. Place it vertically like the screenshot. The font size is set to 36px. 
E. Create a line using shape tools which is provided in the top menu and choose line. You can place the line underneath the text we just wrote. How does this look? You can follow up with the screenshots for the reference. 

F. For the cross icon, you can go to ‘No-Booking Yet’ page and see the cross icon we made? You can copy that icon, reduce the size and fill the color to black. Place the icon at the top right. 
### 8. Making a Working Prototype Design:
A. In order to make the working prototype of our design, select the prototype option on the right side nav bar just after the design. Click on the Signup option in the welcome page and then select the signup page. Do the same thing for the Sign in button(direct to sing in page). Select the Sign in button and direct it to the Home page, do the same thing for the Sing up button. Now select the Book new Appointment box and direct it to the Book new appointment Screens in the same way connect the Recent Bookings to No bookings Yet screen and The menu on the to right side of the home page to Nav screen we created so far.

Congratulations Your prototype for the Medical scheduling Website is completed. You can press play button on the Top menu bar To see the Working Model of our Website.


## Your design is ready! You can send me your website design on mail @ravinder.pinda@gmai.com


